=Condor-Copasi Tasks=

This page gives detailed information each of the tasks Condor-Copasi can perform, and details on how to prepare Copasi models for each task.

All Copasi models should be saved using Build 33 or Build 34 of Copasi.

==Global Sensitivity Analysis / Sensitivity Optimization==
===Introduction===
Condor-Copasi is able to automate and parallelize the global sensitivity analysis procedure, as described in the paper [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18632455 A new strategy for assessing sensitivities in biochemical models].


===Model preparation===

All parameters that you wish to vary should be added to the *Optimization* task, with initial values appropriate upper and lower bounds set.

An appropriate optimization method, such as 'Particle Swarm' should also be set.

In addition, the parameter you wish to calculate the sensitivities against (for example, the flux through a reaction, or the concentration of a metabolite) should be set as the Function the *Sensitivities* task as a Single Object.

===Parallelization===
Condor-Copasi will split this task up into two Condor jobs per parameter specified in the Optimization task -- one job to minimize the sensitivity and one job to maximise it.

===Output===
Condor-Copasi produces a tab-separated text file containing, for each parameter in the Optimization task, the maximum and minimum values found for the parameter specified in the Sensitivities task. In addition, information is returned on the amount of CPU time taken per optimization run, and the number of function evaluations taken by the optimization algorithm.

===Example File===
[http://condor-copasi.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/examples/SO%20Test%20(MAPK).cps Click here] to download an example model that has been configured to run the Sensitivity Optimization task.


==Stochastic Simulation==
===Introduction===
Condor-Copasi provides an easy to use environment for running multiple stochastic simulations. The simulations are automatically split into parallel jobs and run on the Condor pool. Once completed, the results are automatically collated, and particle number means and standard deviations calculated.

===Model preparation===
The model should be prepared as if a single Time Course task were to run. A stochastic or hybrid algorithm should be selected, and all other parameters for the Time Course task set as desired.

===Parallelization===
Condor-Copasi will automatically split this task into a number of sub-jobs, each of which can be executed in parallel on the Condor pool. The number of repeats performed for each Condor job will depend on the time taken to simulate a single run of the Time Course task. Condor-Copasi aims to make each Stochastic Simulation job submitted to Condor run for a constant length of time. If a single stochastic run of the Time Course task takes longer than this time, then a single stochastic run will be performed for each Condor job.

Typically, the running time of each job is set to be approximately equal to 20 minutes, but can be adjusted by the System Administrator. Note that, due to differences in the processing power of different machines in the Condor pool, the running time of individual jobs may vary considerably.

===Output===
Condor-Copasi will automatically calculate particle number means and standard deviations for all species in the model at each time point. These are available to download as a tab-separated text file by clicking 'Download the results', and can be plotted by clicking 'View the results'.

The output produced for each individual Time Course repeat is also available in the file `raw_results.txt`. This file is available by clicking 'Download results directory'.

==Parallel Scan==
===Introduction===

===Model preparation===

===Output===


==Optimization Repeat==
===Introduction===

===Model preparation===

===Output===


==Parameter Estimation Repeat==
===Introduction===

===Model preparation===

===Output===


==Optimization Repeat with Different Alogorithms==
===Introduction===

===Model preparation===

===Output===